“What do you think?" Reed looked at Riley, who had been taking notes. Riley’s mother was a reporter and his father was a court stenographer, so Reed and Henry were used to seeing Riley quietly scribbling in a notebook, not only in class, but during routine conversations. Riley’s attention to detail had resolved more than a few arguments over the years when they went back and consulted his jottings. He wasn’t a big talker like Henry and he wasn’t a nervous babbler like Reed. He took notes.
“I want to see what happens,” Riley said now, looking up from his notebook. “I’m in.”
“See? Even without a formal vote, majority rules,” Henry said, smiling.
Reed put his head between his knees and tried to breathe slowly because he’d heard that this technique made your heart stop racing and helped the swirly blobs in front of your eyes go away. The upside-down position only made his ears ring more loudly.
“I’m going to tweak the ideas for a few more days,” Henry said to the top of Reed’s head, “and we’ll reconvene this weekend and get started.”
“Reconvene?” Reed asked. “You mean meet up?”
“Don’t worry, Reed,” Riley said. “I know a website where you can draw up your last will and testament.” Although he was only twelve, Riley had already written several drafts of his own will. He liked to be prepared.
“See how interesting things have gotten already?” Henry asked. “Did you think when you got up in the morning that you’d be writing a will in the afternoon? My plan is revving things up around here.”
“I’m not sure I’m the kind of person who was meant for an interesting life,” Reed said, raising his head. “I think my Inner Courageous Guy might be hibernating. Or nonexistent.”
“That’s exactly why we need to start doing Interesting Things That Will Build Our Character,” Henry said. “Otherwise we could wind up like Dwight Hauser.”
Reed and Riley both frowned. At their school, Dwight Hauser was just another way of saying “stuck-up, pushy jerk,” “puke-spewing slimeball” or “nose-picking, booger-eating punk.” Dwight Hauser was an out-and-out bully, but Henry, Riley and Reed knew that he was yellow clear through, because he only picked on girls or younger kids. Hauser was always surrounded by a rumor-spreading group of tiny-minded toadies who had been scheming for years to slip iguana poop into the beef stew in the lunchroom.
“Well, if you put it like that,” Reed said, “I’ll keep you guys company. If you insist.”
“You wait and see,” Henry said. “You’re going to wind up thanking me for coming up with this Plan of Action. I have a feeling, men, that it’s going to be the best thing that ever happened to us.” "I have it: the absolutly perfect first idea." Henry held up a yellow legal pad covered with calculations. He was sitting next to Reed and Riley on his back steps the following saturday morning. They'd met at 0900 hours, which wasn't too tricky for Reed to figure out, but he was still late because he'd overslept and then he'd taken right when he meant to take a left at the Petersons' house on the corner because Erika Peterson was getting in the car to go to figure-skating lessons and Reed though Erika was so pretty he had a hard time telling right from lef when he saw her.